[Music]
ah that's funny well
everything is when you're a giant hyena
patchy crocodile
if you want to picture how animals from
ancient times look like
just imagine them way bigger with larger
and sharper teeth
and wait like that isn't enough yep you
had to be one
mighty beast to survive in such times
when everything around you is like
5xl this hyena was up to three feet tall
with a weight of 400 pounds that's the
size of a modern lion and around three
times bigger than today's hyena
the ancient one also had shorter legs
which is also the reason plenty of
prehistoric creatures went extinct
over time they ran out of food but
couldn't run fast or long enough to
catch prey
also they couldn't escape quickly enough
if there was some bigger guy nearby
ancient and modern hyenas have quite
similar habits
diet meat meat and meat
they both prefer to steal fruit from
other usually smaller predators
rather than go hunting on their own and
of course
they're both always smiling at everyone
around
cheese you always somehow picture sharks
as those marine animals we should be
afraid of right
not whales they're mostly good nature
eating their plankton
spraying out water through that hole in
their backs and stuff and of course
they could get a little clumsy from time
to time so they turn over a ship
anyway they're not that into hunting
humans
well if we all lived in the time of this
50-foot 50-ton
whale livia time i like to call toothy
let's just say going to the beach would
never be the same the beast weighed like
six
elephants and was longer than a truck oh
yeah about that toothy thing
this whale had teeth longer than your
palm and a quite refined hunting
instinct
so it went after all marine animals
including other whales too
its only rival was the megalodon itself
the only biggest and scariest shark that
ever lived on our planet
okay of course this list is full of
giant and dangerous animals with extra
sharp teeth
who you're certainly glad they went
extinct but there's also
some close relative to a human ancestor
here too
hello um distant cousin paranthropus
so our cousin p had a big brain well at
least for those times
and good reflexes which is why they
could defend themselves against some
bigger and less brainy creatures that
were after them
they mostly ate plants roots nuts soft
fruits
young leaves probably insects and seeds
they were around five feet tall and 150
pounds in weight
not that big compared to other
prehistoric mammals
but still big enough to survive those
tough times
way to go p the next one is yes
i'm very happy these things went extinct
prehistoric mammal
gorgonopsia they were something between
mammals and reptiles with of course
very very big five-inch saber-like teeth
an 18-inch long skull and the size of a
modern bear
at their beginnings these guys were
really small no bigger than a dog
after a while evolution did its thing
and turned them into the biggest
carnivores of their time
which was over 250 million years ago i
wasn't around that
scientists still don't know if they had
clear skin fur or scales
but they do know these beasts had rather
long legs compared to the rest of their
body
which means they could run much faster
than many other animals from those times
andrew sargents or andy my nickname for
it
is everything you would attribute to
today's predators
such as tigers wolves or hyenas only a
bit more intimidating version of course
with
extremely sharp teeth who would have
thought the biggest
meat-eating mammal that ever lived is
actually a part of the family where
pigs camels and antelopes came from
it had the size of a modern bison with a
weight of at least half a time
and he wasn't that picky with the menu
so it went after most other animals that
lived back then
which was around 40 million years ago it
seems ancient times where those wear
tigers or
some other predators were afraid of pigs
unlike today
yup step back terminator pig intellidot
is on its way okay research actually
showed they were more like hippos
whales and its cousin andy but this cool
nickname has already been given
so we can't go back early terminator
pigs were no bigger than today's swines
but they grew to become cow size over
time
they also had short snouts but a couple
of million years later
evolution decided that's not scary
enough and made their lower and upper
jaws much longer
oh and they got an even sharper set of
canines
a special how to creep your rivals
edition
finally an ancient mammal we don't have
to be afraid of
well at least if we're not in its way
because if this
giant accidentally stepped on you squish
but at least its menu consisted of
plants
so we would be safe at some point let me
introduce you to the gentle giant
thunderbeast brontothurium it had quite
a sturdy nasal horn
weighed three tons and was 16 feet in
length which is bigger than a modern
rhino
the size unfortunately didn't help it
much
andy was always just breathing down its
neck praying at it and its companions
such a list definitely can't go without
the menacing saber-toothed cat
around four feet long 100 pounds agile
completely capable of hunting in
coordinated packs
but you know cats they like to brag
about the catch they got on their own
that's our mega mega tyrion you can find
her and her companions all over the
world
in europe asia north america and africa
now we often think all big cats are into
running after their prey
but megan wasn't built for speed at all
nor did it sprint after a prey like some
other
cats no no she preferred to wait for the
prey to get closer
she would choose a good spot climb up
some tall tree
hide and simply chill after a while
some innocent herbivores would go there
to drink some water and
bam surprise megan's down her hunting
style is something we see in leopards
today
teeth were her main weapon so gotta
watch out for those big upper canines
oh finally a name i can more easily
pronounce
so i don't have to come up with my own
the giant
short-faced bear this beast could run up
to
40 miles per hour after it cornered its
prey
the bear would rear up to its full
height 13 feet
so the poor animal knew nothing good was
about to come
cave bears usually prefer vegetables but
as far as this short faced one was
concerned
nah meat is way better i'd like to hunt
as well as collect what other predators
would leave behind
also as far as is known apparently no
one ever asks the short-faced bear
hey why the long face
leo the prehistoric lion thylacolio
gene sounds like a pharmaceutical anyway
five feet long
200 pounds insanely strong jaws sharp
teeth
long retractable claws muscular body hey
it's me
no not really it also had a surprisingly
powerful tale
leo actually comes from the land down
under where ancestral kangaroos lived
and they also had quite strong tails to
balance themselves
okay speaking of kangaroos here's one
small surprise
leo's roots you would think kangaroos
koala bears and giant wombats were there
just to live a happy life until they
became someone's breakfast
but their family somehow raised an
animal that looked like a saber-toothed
tiger
but with bigger teeth yes leah way to go
breaking the stereotypes leo was
somewhere at the top of the food chain
in his times
even though he had one quite strong
rival a giant
monitor lizard megalania or even some
plus sized crocodile
quincanna okay okay move guys this is
not a video about reptiles wait your
turn
prehistoric age dinosaurs rolled all
over the region
making a mess while other animals shiver
in fear and hide from them
hey not so fast dinos there's mr r
rapino mammoth a mysterious mammal that
decided to stand up to the authorities
he showed up 130 million years ago and
was
a badger-like three-foot long animal
doesn't sound much compared to the t-rex
and bigger dinos
but was way bigger than some of those
feathery dinosaurs from the same time
not only that he would eat them we don't
know how
exactly but let's just say mr r had his
own ways
i'm guessing it was for breakfast